Top 15 Automation Testing Interview Questions & Answers

Following are frequently asked questions in interviews for freshers as well experienced QA professionals.

1) What is Automation testing?

Automation Testing is a technique using an automation tool to write and execute tester's test scripts and cases.

The main goal of Automation Testing is to reduce the number of test cases to be run manually and not eliminate Manual Testing altogether.

2) When will you automate a test?

Automation in preferred in following cases

Repetitive Tasks
Smoke and Sanity Tests
Test with multiple data set
Regression test cases
Usually, the decision is based on the ROI (Return on Investment)

3) When will you not automate testing?

One should not automate in following cases

When the Application Under Test changes frequently
One time test cases
Adhoc – Random testing
4) What are the steps involved in the Automation Process?

In the automation process, steps involved are

Selecting the Test tool
Define scope of automation
Planning, design, and development
Test execution
Maintenance
5) What are the points that are covered while planning phase of automation?

During planning phase of automation things which must be taken in concern are

Selection the "right" Automation tool
Selection Automation Framework if any
List of In scope and out of scope items for automation
Test Environment Setup
Preparing Grant Chart of Project timelines for test script development & execution.
Identify Test Deliverables


6) In what condition we cannot use automation testing for the Agile method?

Automation testing is not useful for agile methods in following conditions

When Agile testing always ask for changes in requirements
When Exhaustive level of documentation is required in Agile
Only suitable for those regression tests during agile testing like continuous integration
7) What are the primary features of good automation tool?

Test Environment support and easy to use
Good debugging facility
Robust object identification
Object and Image testing abilities
Object identification
Testing of database
Support multiple frameworks
8) What are the types of the framework used in software automation testing?

In software automation testing four types of framework used are

Data-driven automation framework
Keyword driven automation framework
Modular automation framework
Hybrid automation framework
9) What is the scripting standard while performing automation testing?


While writing the scripts for automation, you must consider following things,

Uniform naming convention.
3 Lines of comments for every 10 lines of code
Adequate indentation.
Robust error handling and recovery scenario
Use of Frameworks wherever possible
10) What are the most popular tools for automation testing?

The most popular test tool for automation testing are

QTP (HP UFT)
Rational Robot
Selenium
11) On what basis you can map the success of automation testing?

By following criteria, the success of automation testing can be mapped

Defect Detection Ratio
Automation execution time and time savings to release the product
Reduction in Labour & other costs
12) Can list out some disadvantages of manual testing?

Manual Software Testing requires more time and more resources.
Inaccuracy
Executing same test case repeatedly is error prone and boring.
It is impractical to do manual testing on very large projects and time bounded projects.
13) Tell me what you know about Selenium

Selenium is a free (open source) Test Suite framework. It is used to automated Web and Mobile environments. It consists of

Selenium IDE (Browser Addon – Record and Playback Tool)
Selenium WebDriver
Selenium Grid (Distributed Testing)
Selenium supports scripting in languages like Java, C#, Python, Ruby, PHP, Perl, Javascript.

14) Tell me about QTP

QTP (Quick Test Professional) is now known as HP UFT. It is a commercial automation tool and supports a very wide range of test environments Web, Desktop, SAP, Delphi, Net, ActiveX, Flex, Java, Oracle, Mobile, PeopleSoft, PowerBuilder, Siebel, Stingray, Visual Basic amongst others.

The scripting language is VBScript. The tool gels well with HP ALM (Test Management Tool) and HP LoadRunner (Performance Testing Tool).

Salient features of QTP include Business Process Testing, keyword driven framework, XML support, robust checkpoints, test results.

15) Explain what Sikuli is?

Sikuli is a tool that uses "Visual Image Match" method to automate graphical user interface. All the web elements in Sikuli should be taken as an image and stored inside the project.

Sikuli is comprised of

Sikuli Script
Visual Scripting API for Jython
Sikuli IDE
Practical uses of Sikuli is that

It can be used to automate flash websites or objects
It can automate window based application and anything you see on screen without using internal API support
It provides simple API
It can be easily linked with tools like Selenium
Desktop application can be automated
Sikuli offers extensive support to automate flash objects
To automate desktop, it uses powerful "Visual Match" and Flash objects
It can work on any technology-.NET, Java,
16) Mention what is the difference between Selenium and Sikuli?



Selenium
It cannot automate flash objects like video player, audio player,
It has got complicated API
It does not have visual match
It can automate only web applications

Sikuli
It provides extensive support to automate flash objects
It has simple API
It uses a visual match to find elements on the screen. So, we can automate anything we see on the screen
It can automate the web as well as windows application
It has got complicated API

